In this lesson, we'll edit the blog page and the layout of blog posts present within the design.
You'll learn archive pages and how they bring in dynamic content like posts and arrange them by the
end of this video.
You'll be able to control the look and feel of blog archive pages, category archives and individual
blog posts using cadence.
Let's take a look at the blog page in cadence.
We've brought in the real estate starter template, and the blog page is a page that exists on the website,
so it has a title page title blog.
It does use the same header and it has this image at the top that we've been working with, and you
can see that the blog page has this three column grid and it has all six blog posts in there and this
is called a blog archive page.
Now, a category would also have an archive page, and you can edit that and change the way that looks
as well.
Potentially, if you look at, you know, if these are categories like home buying, for example, the
home buying archive page, it looks similar.
Now there's only one post in the home buying category, I can tell.
And then a single post layout has a different layout than a blog.
Archive page and archive in WordPress is just meaning that it's pulling in dynamically.
Some different content that exists as full pages elsewhere and an archive is a conglomeration or a group
of all those pages.
And so usually a blog page is known as a blog archive.
It's just assumed and there could be a category archive or a tag archive page.
In any case, let's take a look at the blog archive page or the blog page and just see how it's built
and how we edit the look and feel of that before we finish up with this Kadence section of the course.
So I'll just go back into pages and you can take a look at this to The Post's page.
Now remember under appearance?
Excuse me?
Nope.
Under Settings and reading.
You can set what page is set as the Post's page to have this blog archive page work.
You have to set a page called blog or call whatever you want and set it as the post page here under
Reading Settings.
And so let's look under pages all pages and click the blog posts page.
Now, you might be surprised at this point that it doesn't have any content in it.
Look at this this list view is empty.
You are currently editing the page that shows your latest posts, and so this is controlled dynamically
through cadence and through WordPress itself, because we've defined it as the blog archive itself.
And so you wouldn't want to bring any content into this page.
In fact, if you, you know, if you use the design library and you brought some content into this page
at all, then it wouldn't even appear on the blog page.
And so let's find out where that is controlled.
Go back and leave that page and leave it the way it is.
Go back to the WordPress dashboard and go to appearence.
Customize.
Let's check out where the editing is for the blog archive page, so under blog posts, blog posts are
a post type in WordPress.
And, you know, as we've looked at before, when we're looking at the 2022 theme as well as the Frost
theme, there's a post type called pages and there's a post type called posts in WordPress.
And so posts are just defined by having being associated with a date and having potentially a category,
a number of tags and an author.
And so generally, an archive layout or a blog page is displayed with all the blog posts being shown
to the user in reverse chronological order, with the newest posts up at the top and then scrolling
down to older posts in a blog layout.
And so you're probably familiar with that.
But I just wanted to define it here.
So when we look at the blog page itself, we can look at it inside of the customizer and see what we're
looking at here.
So, you know, we have a few things defined for the blog archive.
So for blog posts, this are a for for archives.
As far as showing, you know what we want to show, there's a lot of settings here we have above the
content for the archive title.
If we weren't in content, what would that do?
Well, that just shows, you know, the word blog is here somewhere, but it's in white.
There it is.
And so we would have to change the spacing and change, you know, different things if we wanted that
to be what it looks like.
But if we do above the content and it comes back and it shows the defined image at the top there.
And so that's the defined image for, you know, all pages of the website that are not the home page.
And so the container width basically standard or full width would just bring it out.
It wouldn't change anything as far as this layout.
This is for the title, you know, actually, so it can be full width standard is actually full width,
then the post archive title align.
If you wanted to put it in the middle, you totally could do that.
In fact, I like how that looks a little bit better or even on the right.
But then you can change the mobile responsive settings right here and then the container minimum height.
So that's the container for, you know this right here.
You could say that I want that actually to be a little bit smaller, just maybe maybe 150, I think.
I like round numbers.
Well, I don't know why when I do that.
But, you know, a hundred and fifty pixels and then what is it look like on a tablet might want to
bring that a little smaller.
That looks pretty good, though.
And then on the phone, you know, that's a little bit tall.
It's sort of wasted space on the phone screen.
So might bring that back down to more like 90.
And then on the tablet, you know, it might as might as well customize that as well down to say, What
did I say?
It was one fifty.
Yeah, maybe maybe 120 on the tablet and then 150 on that container.
What that does is it minimizes this space and it doesn't waste any space, and it lets the user see
the first three blog posts sooner.
You know, above the fold or above the line of the bottom of the browser, which is called above the
fold.
And so as we go down again, what do you want to show as far as the title here, the title, if there's
a description on the blog page and then whether you want to show breadcrumbs, these are barely make
them out, but it just shows you where you are as far as the blog archive, you know, and you'd want
to change the color of that as far as the way it's displayed, and then you can change the order of
it to by dragging these around near the title elements under breadcrumbs show the post title in the
breadcrumb you could.
If you're looking at a post, it'll tell you that you're in blog and in what category and then the post
title in the breadcrumbs that's sometimes useful for user navigation.
And then so the layout, you know, normal layout.
Do you want it to look narrower where it would bring, you know, the posts down there?
Or do you want it full width?
Do you want to use a sidebar, you know, that would use a widget that you can define site wide and
put different items like, say, maybe there's a Facebook feed for the Facebook page for this website
over there or, you know, recent posts, for example, or comments a search bar, for example.
But let's leave it at normal.
And here's the default sidebar we have two sidebars defined under appearance widgets in this website,
but you know, let's just leave it where it is.
Of course, there's lots more boxed or unboxed.
How many columns?
And then for each item down here, you could see that we're showing, you know, we're showing the categories,
we're showing the title.
The featured image, you know, always looks better with the featured image of each blog post, and
that's clickable to the blog post itself.
And then the Mirror would be, you know, author and date, you know, and even the author, avatar
or or profile pic.
And so the excerpt you can define how much of the excerpt maybe I want less of the excerpt.
You know, here, if I want to bring it back down to say, you know, twenty two characters instead
of where it was, that might be appropriate, especially if you come back up here and you're like,
I'm using a narrow width and look with this excerpt does so when I'm using that narrow with, I want
to bring that excerpt way down.
Or maybe I don't want an excerpt at all.
And so anyway, those are some of the options that you can give to the archive pages.
And then there's a read more link, of course, which is always appropriate to have.
I'm going to close out of this without saving my changes because I think the layout that comes in by
default is quite good.
All right.
So that's how you edit the Post Archive and the blog posts area and our appearance customize.
And of course, you can imagine and you've seen there's a lot more to it, and we'll get to a cadence
pro and other cadence features later in the course.
But I hope that was good and informative for you.
And we'll see it in the next section.